<h2>CS 465 Full Stack Development I</h2>
<h3>Architecture:</h3>
<p>This project utilizes an Express-based customer-facing portion of the application and an Angular Single-Page Application (SPA) administrative-facing portion. The Express application serves handlebars template pages using routes, controllers, and views. The Angular SPA serves the entirety of the webpage upon the first load and then renders and executes code in the client's browser. Both portions of the application utilize the app API to serve data to populate the pages of the web application. Additionally, the SPA includes CRUD elements to modify the database to create and update trips. A NoSQL MongoDB database was used since it scales well, includes quick queries, and formats well with JSON.</p>
<h3>Functionality:</h3>
<p>JSON is a specification to format data. JSON can be used with various programming languages. JavaScript is a programming language primarily used to create logic in webpages. JSON is used to define objects in JavaScript. Through JSON and the app API the front-end and back-end are tied together to receive requests and send responses. Several instances of refactoring code occurred throughout the development process. First, static HTML was converted to Handlebars templates to simplify the code. In this process, the footer and header were moved to partial Handlebars files and included in each page allowing for more readable and reusable code. Additionally, data was moved from a JSON file to MongoDB to allow accessibility throughout the application and remove hard-coded data from the application.</p>
<h3>Testing:</h3>
<p>HTTP methods are interactions that take place between the client and the server. The most common methods and the methods addressed in this project were POST, PUT, GET, and DELETE. API endpoints are how the client communicates with the server using HTTP methods. Regarding security, this project utilized authentication to provide a JWT to allow access to certain API endpoints for the user.</p>
<h3>Reflection:</h3>
<p>This course allowed me to develop skills in full-stack development and web development. I obtained experience working with HTML, JavaScript, Handlebars, and TypeScript. Additionally, I learned valuable information regarding the web development process. I found the process of linking dependencies and routing pages very interesting and provided a more complete view of how web applications function. From job openings I've seen the skills described above are requirements in most full-stack development jobs. Learning and developing these skills has made me a more versatile and competitive candidate if I apply for those jobs.</p>
